The Joe Rogan experience. I've been following your exploits on, uh,
social media and, uh, the yellow Caman. Yes, dude.
That is a wild looking creature. Isn't it? It's unbelievable.
It was thought to be extinct. Uh, yeah.
So this one's, it's a little confusing. It, um,
it's a species that was last seen in when the last one died in a zoo in the
eighties. And because of the region that it occupies in Columbia,
which has always been controlled by far rebels,
nobody had been back down there to look for it and, uh,
myself and there's actually this amazing Columbian scientist named Sergio Rena.
We're both kind of going and, and prodding and trying to see if we could get in.
And, and we both found it within a month of each other. Oh, wow. Yeah.
Now it's a, with a beautiful looking creature. Look at that thing, right?
Such a wild green, yellow color. So wild looking. It's you.
Super unique.
Dude. I mean, just holding that thing by the neck. Yeah. We.
Just had a little wrestling match him and I, so <laugh>.
You don't even have body control. Don't you wanna take mountain here?
Maybe get a back Mount, get some hooks in <laugh>.
No, he would, it was good. You know, reptiles. They tire out.
So they're not like mammals. Um, once they expend all their energy,
that's kind of it. Um, but yeah, absolutely amazing. The.
Are they similar to regular crocodile alligators and that they don't have to eat
for like a year?
Yeah, so Caymen, I mean,
Caymen don't have the as slow of metabolism as certain other species,
but they are, they're a member of the alligator family,
so to speak and they can go very long times without food. What.
A crazy animal, like looks like a monster. Yep. I mean, look at, look at it.
The teeth on that thing, <laugh> swallows things basically hold just,
it spins to take chunks off of things. Swallows 'em whole,
it doesn't have to eat for a can go underwater for how long without holding
spread.
Like 40, 45 minutes. Some of them. Yeah. Some.
Species. So you have no idea it's there, right? It's just waiting for you.
And they're fairly small, right?
There's like a 90 pound animal when it's fully grown.
Uh,
well these ones it's so little is known about this particular species of Cayman
that it's hard to say. I would say yeah,
a hundred pounds is probably about right. There's.
Uh, great photo. Jamie from the nature is metal. Um,
Instagram page from yesterday. That page is.
Nuts. I love that.
I love it too. I love that page. There's a great one of, uh,
a Jaguar with a Cain in its mouth. That one look at the eyes on that. Yeah.
Like go expand. Look at that. <laugh> the thing of nightmares.
Look at those bangs right in the throat, like just death grip.
And you can see that that Caman is death rolling in that scene. Right.
It's trying to get away. It's rolling. And that JAG is just locked in the.
Eyes on that thing. My God unbelievable.
It's like nature has created like in those kind of eyes. That's the perfect,
that's the, the perfect vision of terror. Yeah. Like those eyes totally.
Like you locked into those eyes. Like there's no forgiveness,
there's no emotions.
There's just ferocity and aggression and death. It.
Seems like nothing. But testosterone is behind that. You know? I mean,
testosterone is probably the wrong, wrong chemical,
but it just seems so focused and motivated. And like you say, it's just,
it looks.
Like death. Yeah.
I'm sure there's some testosterone involved in that equation too,
but there's a bunch of other cat.
<Laugh> in there. <laugh> but literally, and.
They have, apparently the,
the thing in the caption was saying that it came in has one of the greatest
bites per pound.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> of any of the big cats and they regularly eat these,
the JAG. Yeah.
Jaguar rather has one of the greatest bites and they regularly eats these, uh,
these Caymans. Yeah.
No, they're amazing. And, and you know, back to the one that we found,
it's so great because like I'm the hide and seek guy, right?
Like I look for them and now there's this S Sergio Rena down in Columbia,
who's gonna manage that species ongoing existence. So, oh, wow. It's.
Really cool. So what is involved in that, like managing their existence?
What is he, I.
Mean, you know, it's wildlife management, so it's,
it's getting proper population dynamics, trying to understand them,
genetically figure out what their food sources figure out how much hunting
pressure they can take or cannot take those kind of things.
And that's not my department, you know, I, I, I go in and look for them.
That's someone like Sergio who's in the field lives in Columbia can work with
the species. It's.
Really cool.
I remember there was a documentary about this guy who was a scientist who was
obsessed. He was a biologist and he was obsessed with, uh,
the giant sloth mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And he was spending all of his time down the Amazon he'd been down there for
years. And, and the, the, the,
the documentary was following him at this stage where he was getting really
frustrated and not sure if he's wasting his career. Right.
Like there was this feeling like, this thing might not be real. Yeah. Like,
cuz they would tell me, yeah, I saw it. It was over the hill and he is like, uh,
you sure you saw it. Right. And they, you know, they'd bring these people in,
they would speak their native tongue and they'd have this discuss of this thing
that they saw. Yep. Two years ago, big like a bear.
You know, walks on a time like mega Atherium. Yeah, yeah. They're uh,
we discussed this briefly. Last time I saw you. I think it's funny.
We got straight back to the same, same wildlife stuff. Um, but yeah,
no it's who knows. Right? Who knows if it's still out there,
there's definitely ongoing reports so much so that I forget university,
but some university actually launched an, uh,
an expedition to try and find the Meum. So really recently, uh,
I'd have to look it up probably 10 years ago now. Yeah. Not that long ago, but,
but you know,
if an academic institution is putting resources behind an expedition like that,
there's a lot of faith and maybe even Intel that they're not releasing publicly
to say this animal still here. Wow.
That would be crazy. Like how big was a giant sloth? Uh.
Well there's a couple varieties. Like the,
there was a north American one that was enormous,
like bigger than a grizzly bear. Wow. Um, yeah, but so from what I've been,
what I've heard, what I've read,
you're talking about something that stands 14 foot tall walking around the
Amazon's like, like this.
14 Foot tall, like winter bigger the, in a Kodiak grizzly. That's.
What the reports say.
That's you gotta take everything with a grain of salt. Exactly. I mean.
You gotta take their existence with a grain of salt, like, but.
This page, whatever this page is a Bigfoot cousin,
the is this page and look up there,
Megalodon sightings is the Megalodon shark still alive. Yeah.
And straight away that's like discrediting you're right. You're like, okay.
<Laugh> what is this website? You pull up there. It's.
A article from June about just lots of information about them.
It's not even saying like it exists. It's just saying,
this is all the information we have about this, uh,
this map Andar sidings.
People love finding undiscovered or mythical
creatures that turn out to be like the, uh, Tasmanian tiger. Right?
Like that's a perfect example. Like people they love to try to find what is it?
Thine, thine. Yep. People love to try to find that thing.
Like the idea that it's out there it's like, what is it about?
Are people where it's so compelling to find a species that
we were, we thought didn't exist or we thought was extinct,
like whether it's Bigfoot or the Lochness monster or the thy scene,
which we know used to be real. Right. It's.
I, I mean, what do you think? I think that people quite, you know,
they long for the unknown and there's this big question mark surrounding
cryptoids or surrounding extinct animals as to whether it's still out there.
And that's so much more inviting to the general,
to the general populace to get an answer to than knowing, oh, you know,
there's 700 of them left and we're trying to get 'em up to 1400 or whatever the
species dynamic is for some other animal, as opposed to being like,
there could be one out, out there. Where is it? And I personally,
I've been on two different expeditions looking for thine. Really? Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. I did one in Northern Australia up north of cans. And then one, I spent,
uh, a couple weeks in Tasmania with a amazing biologist, Nick Mooney, who, uh,
he's adamant that he's seen thine and he's a biologist, this isn't, you know,
someone who worked as a B that was out in the wilderness going. Yeah. Yeah.
I've seen thylacine and he was terrified to tell everybody. And that,
that tells me that it's more credible. Right? Oh,
if you're scared to tell people because of your reputation,
as opposed to like going out there going, I saw it, I saw it. I saw it. Right.
That becomes more credible than the people who are just waving their arms in the
air going. I told you it's here.
Did he come out of the thine closet? Uh, like when you scared to tell people,
when's he like, oh God, <laugh> I.
Gotta go public with this. Um, I'm not sure if,
if he told us first or if it was public, uh, right before then,
but not long ago. I mean maybe 10 years ago. Yeah's such.
A cool looking animal too, because it was a Mar tiger, right? Yeah.
Marsupial, predator, whatever.
It's like a marsupial Wolf with tiger stripes. It's so bizarre.
And it had this amazing, um, jaw that would open like, like a snakes,
like way wider than its head, should stripes on the back. Um, just such a cool.
Animal. Yeah. And the last one died in a zoo. Right? The,
the last one that we think yep.
In Hobart, in Tasmania. Wow. But let me, let me lay this on you.
So my next expedition, um, for that animal,
cause I I'm like all those other people that are kind of obsessed with it.
My next expedition for that animal is to pop one new Guinea. So this species,
yeah, that's right. <laugh> wow. This,
this species used to range all the way from paua new Guinea down through
mainland Australia and into Tasmania.
When people came over and settled that area, they brought with them dogs,
dingos and dingos,
outcompeted them in mainland Australia and possibly in paua new Guinea 4,000
years ago. But the,
the thine remained in Tasmania where they O dingos to outcompete them.
But in mainland Australia, you've got a diversity of habitats.
So there are places that thysen could still hide, but in paua new Guinea,
the terrain is so crazy that the idea is that in certain regions,
dingos could have never made it there.
So perhaps there's these isolated regions where thy very small thysen
populations continued for the as 4,000 years. Have they been sightings many,
but just the same kind of sightings as a giant slot. You know what I mean?
It's all hearsay. Oh, people are so full of.
So yes, they's such a problem.
If gonna be a guy like you actually looking for species.
Yeah. You know, you gotta, you gotta Wade through so much, you know, it's just,
and it's funny because one thing can discredit the entire story that maybe
it shouldn't because they're embellishing or,
or you can be on the hook for someone's story and be like,
I totally believe this guy. It's, it's all real.
And it could be complete BS and there it's just so hard to tell you just have to
go with instinct. Oh God.
<Laugh>. But it is incredibly compelling. I mean, if you really did get an,
a absolute photograph it with thine and you, you knew it was real or,
or captured one. Yeah.
I think, I think it would be the, you know, discovery of the century.
And I think it would kind of shift the scales for people that are on the fence
about, eh, why do I care about conservation?
Why do I care about wildlife management? You know,
those kind of things to be like, check this animal out. Something that,
you know, last saw when we put a bounty on its head and now it's back.
Like it's hung on by a thread. Like that's such a message of hope, you know,
let's save it, let's bring it back.